# Suicidal_Ideation_Detection_Using_GAT_and_GCN

Suicidal ideation is regarded as one of the major mental health concerns that not only negatively effects one's life but also has an unfavorable impact on society. As a result, early suicidal ideation identification has long been viewed as an essential undertaking that may assist both society and suicidal individuals. In this sense, social media material has been demonstrated to suggest early indicators of this condition because it provides a channel for individuals to express their views and beliefs. Natural language processing approaches, in conjunction with deep/machine learning classification models, have proved effective in extracting behavioral and textual aspects from social media posts as a growing study topic. In this project, three different models based on GAT, GCN and Sage have been implemented to examine their performance on two prominent social networking platforms, namely Twitter and Reddit.

# Datasets
In the current trials, four datasets are utilized to evaluate the performance of the approaches, including textual material obtained from both prominent social networks Twitter and Reddit. To begin, Twitter is a well-known online social networking tool that was created in 2006 and receives hundreds of millions of tweets everyday. Similarly, Reddit is a social news forum comprised of multiple sub-communities each with their own specialized topic, where site members may exchange and upload their content to be voted on by other users. To protect users' privacy, the following datasets include no personal information since such information has been replaced with a unique ID or the text of the postings has been utilized anonymously. All datasets include binary labeled suicidal and non-suicidal tweets and Reddit posts.

##	Data analysis
###	Word Cloud
The word cloud can provide useful information about the linguistic and statistical characteristics of suicidal notes, as well as how they differ from regular postings posted on social media. The majority of suicidal notes in Twitter and Reddit datasets mentioned the words "want", "feel", and "know", primarily in negation forms such as "don't know", "can't", or "don't want", which can indicate the implied message of depression or suicidal ideation by the reluctance used in these messages. The other Twitter dataset, on the other hand, is filled with the word "suicide" and references to other individuals using the broad phrase "people." Furthermore, phrases such as "life," "die," "think," "need," "help," "will," and "time" appear often in all datasets; nevertheless, they are used less frequently than previously stated words. 
